---
category: Miscellaneous
date: '2007-08-29T00:00:00'
slug: /a-few-more-dave-ramsey-thoughts
title: A few more Dave Ramsey thoughts
type: post
---

I mentioned the other day that I've been listening to Podcasts
([link](http://www.daveramsey.com/etc/cms/index.cfm?intContentID=3236))
of Dave Ramsey ([link](http://www.daveramsey.com/)). Wanted to
throw out a few more thoughts on him. 1) The approach he uses
starts from a Biblical foundation. Most of the time, this barely
comes through. On occasion though, it's very evident. By and large
though, the financial advice can be consumed completely
independently and he's really not "preachy". So, if the Christian
tilt bugs it should be pretty easy to just focus on the money
handling part of the message. 2) Dave is a salesman. The main
product he sells are his "Financial Peace University" program and
his "Total Money Makeover" book (which was a N.Y. Times best
seller). I become instantly weary when someone tries to sell me
something that has to do with money. The number of snake-oil
salesmen out there with get rich quick schemes seems legion. And
when you expand the thinking to include all the businesses that
sell bad debt (credit card companies, crazy jumbo loans, payday
advance, title loans, etc...) you really have to be on your guard.
I haven't read his book yet (I'm waiting for it at the library) or
attended his program, but from what I've read on his web site and
heard in his podcasts, he really is more like a teacher. In that
way, the "University" part of his Financial Peace University name
is probably pretty accurate. Not unlike college, he really seems to
try to teach a skill. In this case, it's how to handle money and
stay out of debt. If you can do that (which he tells you is almost
certainly going to be difficult), the cost of his products is way
more than worth it. What it comes down to is that he is making
money by doing good works in the world. It's a little disconcerting
to think about him having made millions. The fact that he has done
so while signicantly helping others is a wonderful counter balance
to all the times you hear about other companies, business, or
people screwing folks out of their money. 3) In the podcast, there
are commercials where Dave endorses some products. Like most other
people the do product commercials, he says that he wouldn't endorse
it if he didn't believe in it. Based on the rest of his show, I
would tend to believe that, but it grates on me every time one of
the commercials comes on because it always feels like a higher
pressure sales pitch that echos those of the sleazy element out
there. The fact that he's selling his own product doesn't bother
me, but the fact that he's hawking other peoples goods really
doesn't sit well. So, I just ignore those parts and focus on the
rest of the program. 4) The core of his idea is pretty simple. He
calls them the Baby Steps. They are listed here:
[Baby Steps](http://www.daveramsey.com/etc/cms/baby_steps_2867.htmlc).
If you are looking for a good way to go with your money, I think
it's an excellent path.
